## Energy code

### Title 24 vs. IECC
Each state should satisfy at least the requirements from federal government's energy standard, which is in gerneral `International Energy Conservation Code (IECC)`. CA has a `2016 Building Energy Efficiency Standards Title 24, Part 6`, which exceeds the performance of 2015 IECC.

### 2018 IECC
The newly updated `APPENDIX RA SOLAR-READY PROVISIONS—DETACHED ONE- AND TWOFAMILY DWELLINGS, MULTIPLE SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLINGS (TOWNHOUSES)` has solar ready requirements.

### 2019 Residential Compliance Manual
CA requires PV installation on the new construction and solar ready for those who are exempt from the PV installation. In Seattle, 2017 residential code is the one. Solar ready for `residential` is in residential code while for `commercial`, solar ready requirments is in enery code, not building code. For reference, single family and low rise multifamily is related to residential code (a kind of building code only for residential) otherwise, building code. Electrical permit, which is related to the electrical code from `NEC`, is required after solar PV is installed.

> The California Energy Code, part 6 of the California Building Standards Code which is title 24 of the California Code of Regulations, also titled The Energy Efficiency Standards for Residential and Nonresidential Buildings, were created by the California Building Standards Commission in 1978 in response to a legislative mandate to reduce California's energy consumption. The standards are updated periodically by the California Energy Commission to allow consideration and possible incorporation of new energy efficiency technologies and methods. The California Energy Code (CEC) contains energy conservation standards applicable to most residential and nonresidential buildings throughout California, including schools. - solar ready, residential compliance manual.

> There are 3 different kinds of building codes: private sector, federal sector, and international. The private sector codes are associated with state and local jurisdiction. States and local jurisdictions have different energy codes that they follow based on climate, geography, and many other contributing factors. The two primary baseline codes for the private sector are the International Energy Conservation Code (IECC), and the ANSI/ASHRAE/IESNA Standard 90.1 energy standard for Buildings Except Low-Rise Residential Buildings (ASHRAE 90.1).[4] States and local governments adopt and enforce these energy codes. The standards are published by national organizations such as ASHRAE. The International Code Council (ICC) develops the codes and standards used to construct residential and commercial buildings, including homes and schools.[5] Within the ICC is the IECC which is a subset of the ICC. The IECC is a model energy code, but it is written in mandatory, enforceable language, so that state and local jurisdictions can easily adopt the model as their energy code.[6] The IECC references several ASHRAE Standards, in particular the ASHRAE 90.1 for commercial building construction.
